all right I'm we must now go to jabalia
some breaking news where there's been
another strike another bombing there
we're looking at the latest pictures
this is a refugee camp in
Gaza uh jabalia refugee camp in Gaza
that was already hit yesterday that led
to a massive loss of life and now we're
seeing the latest pictures coming out
showing the aftermath of what we
understand to be another strike on this
refugee camp after as I said a massive
loss of life that was
inflicted well within 24
hours all right let me see if I can uh
bring in our guest back into the
discussion sorry I had to bail out of
our
interview uh because we've got some
breaking news here about another strike
on jabalia refugee camp and as you're
probably aware this is the second strike
in 24 hours we had reports of a massive
loss of Palestinian civilian life as
well as according to Hamas the loss of
some of the Israeli captives their lives
in this bombing looking at situations
like
this how is this going to impact the
claim the the legal basis of a
claim that these operations are simply
in self-defense it's going to be harder
to make that
case it will be harder but Israel can
make it and it will depend on the
circumstances of the particular strike I
don't think that a court is likely to
hold it proportionate uh if one uh
alleged terrorist leader is killed uh
and 50 innocent people are killed I
don't think a philosopher or a lawyer
would say that that was proportionate
but you would have to look at all the
evidence and no doubt Israel would say
oh he could have gone on and killed
hundreds more the court would also look
at whether it had the alternative it's
entitled I'm terribly sorry again I I
have to cor up to my my sincerest
apologies but we've got to go back to
this breaking news situation now we're
getting more details coming in and I
believe we can go to alzer's
correspondent he's of course a
correspondent of Al jaaz Arabic where we
can listen in we've got translation
condensed together in a very small
area and above all the concrete is not
that
strong some of these buildings
are made up of many
stories
once shelled by the Israeli war planes
not only a single building but the
entire
quarter is
reduced to debris as you can see
residents are running for their lives
others are using bare hands in an
attempt to rescue their relatives and
families who are still trapped under the
rubble as you can see the streets are
narrow and it is very difficult for
ambulance to
access and many of the residents
also prefer to stay home and refused the
forceable transfer by the
Israelis entire buildings are not
fit for
housing let alone that many of those
those who had lost their homes in the
past air strikes have taken shelter with
their families or neighbors as a result
if another building is targeted the
number of victims is likely to double
the Israeli war planes have stricken
minutes ago and are expected to continue
in the coming
hours is
is uh has targeted this area with a
barrage of
missiles wave after
another as stated
earlier the war planes are carrying out
intense wave of
shelling using multiple
missiles not a single or one or two and
it seems that these missiles are of
different sizes and
weights they are heavy
missiles Beyond one or two tons
each these types of
missiles cause deep craters and they
massive large scale destruction as you
can
see entire buildings are leveled to the
ground and deep craters are coed in the
ground people are using their bare hands
to rescue their relatives and families
who are buried under the
debris and above all no one could ever
imagine that this deep crater was
once a densely populated Residential
Building the Israeli occupation forces
are using these types of lethal weapons
these types of heavy
missiles even targeting small buildings
residential buildings and that's why
the aftermath is huge
and the number of fatalities and victims
is extremely large even multi sto
strongly
built buildings are reduced to
ruins a pile of
dust many are still trapped under the
debris if you look at
the volume of Destruction you can never
imagine that these once were residential
buildings Standing Tall it is clear that
the Israeli occupation forces and war
planes are
using different types of heavy missiles
different types of lethal weapons this
particular Camp refugee camp in jabalia
came under a number of strikes not only
today some families lost more than 40 or
50 members of their extended families
living in one buildings this area is the
focus of the Israeli war planes it was
targed by a many waves of intense
indiscriminate Shilling using different
types of heavy and lethal missiles as a
result not a single building but the
entire neighborhood the entire quter was
reduced to dust
we are expecting
to that there are still hundreds trapped
and buried under the debris especially
that many of those who had lost their
homes in the past have taken shelters
with their neighbors or other extended
family
members and all those inside those
buildings are no doubt not only killed
but also Torn to Pieces we have been
informed by many of the paramedics and
sever defense rescue teams that after
many air strikes they find body parts
scattered all over the
neighborhood sometimes they find
different body parts hundreds of meters
away this is yet another wave of air
strikes by the Israeli
war planes in
discriminately shelling Residential
Building leveling them to the ground
with their residents
underneath as I said jabalia refugee
camp it is not the first time to come
under attack it seems that the Israelis
are
knowingly trying to cause the maximum
scale of Destruction and to cause the
highest number of victims death or
injuries in an attempt to force people
to leave to the South and this comes as
the Israeli planes also dropped some
leaflets warning gazans to
leave people did not even pick these
lifet they turn the Blind Eye to them
and they are adamant to hold their
grounds that's why we see the highest
number of
victims at least as we speak at this
moment even those who took Refuge to the
center and south of Gaza Strip were not
spared I assure you entire
families their names were wiped off the
register total families whole families
were killed and many were
injured this comes am made a total
collapse of the health sector the
Indonesian
hospital was overpacked with maximum
numbers
of those killed and others injured we I
have also since morning listened to
pressers from Ala hospitals and the
Turkish hospitals that is treating
cancer patients they all announc that
they are almost ran out of everything
even fuel in a few hours they will come
to a total grinding
halt all right we can now bring in on
the phone ham Dan he's the spokesperson
for Hamas first of all tell us what
you're hearing from your sources about
the casualties in this attack on jabali
refugee
camp well uh from our sources we are
talking about 400
marital more than 100 under the r and
the
injuries are in a very bad situation so
we expect AR rise of them number of the
maranam
people and can you tell us earlier we
had a statement from H Hamas saying that
there were a number of captives Israeli
captives and foreign captives who've
been killed in the first strike on
jabalia do you have any idea if this
second strike has caused more casualties
amongst the
captives well till now we can't talk
about that uh uh definitely because you
are still counting the the numbers and
the
people uh we are still trying to find
the people under the rubble so maybe at
the end of that tomorrow we can talk
about the exact numbers maybe some names
but till now we can't talk about that in
a definite or exact numbers and names
how many captives do you have left at
this point do you
know I I can't give you a number because
exactly we don't know uh how many were
there uh under the the bombing uh some
of them were moved here or there so we
don't know exactly whether they were
moving or not so I think it's better to
wait a little bit and we will know and
that that brings us to say exactly that
when we said that those captives are uh
treated like
hostages uh sorry like guests not like
hostages uh it it shows uh that directly
when they bomb the houses of the people
there is a very big chance to kill some
of those people of those captives
because they are not in jails they are
not uh with the war prisoners I mean the
army they they are just with with with
normal people in their own house in
their houses so this is why there is
ities and people were killed through
those
strikes not to underplay the massive
loss of Palestinian civilian life that
we are witnessing but also I want you to
tell me what this attack not only does
to the Palestinian civilian life what
does it do to the prospects of a deal
with Hamas to release more of the
Israeli and foreign captives that you
have these repeated strikes on jabalia
and other civilian
targets well the strikes and the
civilian targets targeted by the
Israelis is not part of um keeping those
captives or the war prisoners it's a
process it's in fact it's a process done
by the Israelis to make more pressure on
the leaders ship of Hamas and on the
militants in the field and is it making
a deal more or less
likely well I think it will make it less
likely because continuing killing the
Palestinians you may kill most of those
captives which maybe with Netanyahu it's
spit up but killing more captives uh
that will complicate more the issue
killing the Palestinians is complicating
the issue and I here I have to say that
nyaho is not fighting the war of Israel
he's fighting his own War because he
knows well after this war he's going to
jail this war make an end for his
political life so he's trying to
complicate the situation making more
longer as he can it may create chances
for him to escape from the jail so I
think he's trying to gain more time for
his own purpose and this is why I think
it's not likely to achieve this kind of
M there is a need for a pressure on
Netanyahu and this pressure must be done
by the United States no one
else we know that there is another
diplomatic process going on in which qar
is mediating we've seen the Rafa border
open today for a limited number of
Palestinians is there likely to be
another agreement involving all the
parties Hamas Israel and Egypt in order
for more Palestinians to leave and also
for Essentials fuel water and other
Basics to enter
Gaza well there is there is a very big
Force done by Qatar in order to achieve
that bringing in the essential needs
including medicine and uh uh fuel but
till now that is opposed by the Israelis
and they are trying to undermine all
those efforts we know that all the
parties accept that effort and they are
reacting positively with that except the
Israelis so we are we are in fact we
have said that clearly uh yesterday when
abua came to the media and he said
we informed uh the mediators that are
ready to release some of the captives in
the coming few days he said that
according to the efforts of qar uh but I
I'm still thinking or believing that the
the one who is undermining all those
process or trying to undermine the
process is the Israeli side let let me
ask you what will it take from your
perspective what are hamas's demands in
order to release the captives you have
what are you asking for on the
table well it was
clear our position is to allow all the
essential needs to enter to Gaza
including the fuel and the medical uh
needs uh and uh there was a clear uh
position we need time to bring all the
people together sending them uh to the
mediators to take them through the Red
Cross this is why the Israelis are
trying to uh undermine the process they
they they don't want the essential needs
to go through
rafaz and also they they prefer to
continue their bombing to Gaza instead
of giving some time to bring those
people together they thought this will
at least make the Palestinians in G they
have some breath uh they they they they
don't want the Palestinians to breathe
they want them to keep under the
all the time until the military
operation is ended which I believe it
was in the first few days uh not as good
as they expected all right we'll leave
it there thanks so much Sam Haman for
talking to
us I'm joined Now by safah he's in Gaza
but he's using an international SIM card
so he can actually speak to us because
we know the communications have been
spotty in Gaza today sofat this is a
very densely packed refugee camp in a
very densely packed civilian area talk
us through first of all what you know
about the aftermath of this
strike
no safad if you can hear me talk us
through the
casualties well we just news about new
bombardment and alja neighborhood which
is one of the
crowded neighborhoods in jabalia refugee
camp it's uh it's the opposite of the
yesterday I mean in terms of directions
uh yesterday one was in uh southeast of
jabalia but to day one is in the north
west of jabalia refugee camp we we are
trying to contact our uh sources and our
relatives in jabalia but because of the
black we could not reach or get more
related
information all right sa we're going to
come back to you in a little bit